Date:  Sep 24, 1992.

This is the directory for the Stanford Parallel Applications for Shared-Memory
(SPLASH) programs. For further information contact splash@mojave.stanford.edu.

PLEASE NOTE:  Owing to our limited resources, we will be unable to spend 
much time answering questions about the applications.  

splash.tar.Z contains the tared and compressed version of all the files.
Grabbing this file will get you everything you need.  We also keep the files
individually uncompressed for partial retrieval.

REPORT:
-------

Please note that the report, found in the report subdirectory, is 42 pages 
long.  Please check to see that you get them all when you print the 
postscript file.  The size of the postscript file is 694769 bytes.  If the 
size is right and it doesn't print all the pages, you may have to modify 
the header of the postscript file to adapt it to your system.  Some people 
still have a problem printing the postscript file.  We therefore provide
the Latex sources and the postscript files for the figures (in the
report subdirectory) so that you can remake the postscript and print it.   
Finally, if all else fails the tech report can be requested by sending 
mail to schulman@sierra.Stanford.EDU.  The tech report number is 
CSL-TR-92-526, dated June 1992.  The original tech
report was number CSL-TR-91-469, but this is somewhat dated.  We will issue
a new tech report when there are major changes to the suite (new applications,
etc.).  However, the latest version of the report is always on-line.

MACROS:
-------

In the macros directory, we provide macros and sample makefiles
for three machines:

Encore Multimax (CMU Mach 2.5: C and Fortran)
SGI 4D/240 	(IRIX System V Release 3.3: C only) 
Alliant FX/8	(Alliant Rev. 5.0: C and Fortran)

These macros work for us with the above operating systems.  Unfortunately,
our limited resources prevent us from supporting them in any way or 
even fielding questions about them.   If they don't work for you, please
contact Argonne National Labs for a version that will.  An e-mail address 
to try might be monitor-users-request@mcs.anl.gov. An excerpt from
a message, received from Argonne, concerning getting the macros follows:

"The parmacs package is in the public domain.  Approximately 15 people at
Argonne (or associated with Argonne or students) have worked on the parmacs
package at one time or another.  The parmacs package is implemented via macros
using the M4 macropreprocessor (standard on most Unix systems).  Current
distribution of the software is somewhat ad hoc.  Most C versions can be
obtained from netlib (send electronic mail to netlib@ornl.gov with the message
send index from parmacs).  Fortran versions have been emailed directly or sent
on tape.  The primary documentation for the parmacs package is the book
``Portable Programs for Parallel Processors'' by Lusk, et al, Holt, Rinehart,
and Winston 1987."

The makefiles provided in the individual program directories specify
a null macro set that will turn the parallel programs into sequential 
ones.  Note that we do not have a null macro set for FORTRAN.

MAILING LIST:
-------------

Please send a note to splash@mojave if you have copied over the programs,
so that we can put you on a mailing list for update reports.

CHANGES:
-------

June 5, 1991.  
------------
	1. The NEWPROC and PAUSEDEC macros have been removed.
	2. The file adv.U in mp3d has been updated to fix a boundary
           condition.
        3. The ocean program has been updated with a new initial guess
           to the equation solver to improve its convergence.  A new 
	   parameter has been added to the solver routine, and the calls 
	   to it have correspondingly changed.

June 13, 1991.  
-------------
	 1. For mp3d, Global->BC is now initialized to 0 in setup.U.
	 2. Next version of tech report complete.

July 31, 1991.
-------------
	1. Small update made to mp3d section of report. Concerns number
	   of time-steps run with simulator.
        2. Water source code updated with comments to describe input
	   parmeters better.

Aug. 6, 1991.
------------
	1. Bug in water fixed.  Some interactions were not being 
           examined correctly and a barrier was missing.  Some other 
	   minor cleanup done in water.
        2. A new version of pthor created.  It primarily improves 
	   cache mapping behaviour.  See README file in pthor 
	   directory.
        3. Reference to paper on data locality and memory system 
	   performance in Ocean added.

Aug. 28, 1991
-------------
	1. Locking bug in mp3d fixed. Caused null pointer dereferencing
	   on some machines.

May 29, 1992
------------
	1. New application (Barnes-Hut) added.
	2. Report updated accordingly. Section 4.2 on general behavioral
	   characteristics cleaned up and enhanced somewhat.
	   Also, indication given of how to scale some of the 
	   scientific applications to run on larger machines.

July 24, 1992
-------------

	1. Some bugs in water fixed:
		a) determining when comp_last should be decremented
	           to compute interactions correctly in interf.U and
		   poteng.U fixed.
		b) a race condition between initializing and accumulating
		   into gl->VIR removed.  A new variable called
		   gl->initialized introduced to do this.
		c) the code will not crash if input variable NFMC is
		   set to 0 and the input displacement file LWI12 (not
		   needed in this case) not provided.

